.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH IMPD4E 1 "February 15, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
impd4e \- a measuring probe which uses hash-based packet selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B impd4e
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B impd4e
command.
.br
It is a libpcap based measuring probe which uses hash-based packet
selection and exports packetIDs via IPFIX to a collector.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBimpd4e\fP is a program that...
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the Info files.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-h, \-\-help
.\" Show summary of options.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-v, \-\-version
.\" Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-c  <configfile>
read parameters from config file (parameters have precedence by order
of the same parameters (last comes last serves), or are supplemental, e.g. for -i)
(config file at last will overwrite cmd line (vice versa))

.TP
.B \-i  <i,f,p,s,u>:<interface>
interface(s) to listen on. It can be used multiple times.
   i - ethernet adapter;             -i i:eth0
   p - pcap file;                    -i p:traffic.pcap
   f - plain text file;              -i f:data.txt
   s - inet udp socket (AF_INET);    -i s:192.168.0.42:4711
   u - unix domain socket (AF_UNIX); -i u:/tmp/socket.AF_UNIX

.TP
.B \-4
use IPv4 socket interfaces
.TP
.B \-6
use IPv6 socket interfaces (default)

.TP
.B \-C  <Collector IP>
an IPFIX collector address
Default: localhost
.TP
.B \-d <probe name>
a probe name
Default: <hostname>
.TP
.B \-D <location name>
a location name
.TP
.B \-e  <export packet count>
size of export buffer after which packets are flushed (per device)
.TP
.B \-f  <bpf>
Berkeley Packet Filter expression (e.g. tcp udp icmp)
.TP
.B \-F  <hash_function>
hash function to use: "BOB", "OAAT", "TWMX", "HSIEH"
.TP
.B \-G  <interval>
location export interval in seconds.
Use -G 0 for exporting once at startup.
Default: 60.0
.TP
.B \-I  <interval>
pktid export interval in sec.
Use -I 0 for disabling this export.
Default: 3.0
.TP
.B \-J  <interval>
probe stats export interval in sec.
Use -J 0 for disabling this export.
Default: 30.0
.TP
.B \-K  <interval>
interface stats export interval in sec.
Use -K 0 for disabling this export.
Default: 10.0
.TP
.B \-l <latitude>
geo location (double): latitude
.TP
.B \-l <lat>:<long>:<interval>
short form
.TP
.B \-L <longitude>
geo location (double): longitude
.TP
.B \-L <long>:<lat>:<interval>
short form
.TP
.B \-m  <minimum selection range>
integer - do not use in conjunction with -r
.TP
.B \-M  <maximum selection range>
integer - do not use in conjunction with -r
.TP
.B \-N  <snaplength>
max capturing size in bytes (Default: 80)
.TP
.B \-o  <observation domain id>
unique identifier for probe
Default: IP address of the interface
.TP
.B \-O <offset>
offset in bytes pointing to the start of the packet
used for tunneled or crooked packets
!!! the offset is applied after the link layer (e.g. ethernet header)
.TP
.B \-p  <hash function>
use different hash_function for packetID generation: "BOB", "OAAT", "TWMX", "HSIEH"
.TP
.B \-P  <Collector Port>
an IPFIX Collector Port
Default: 4739
.TP
.B \-r  <sampling ratio>
in % (double)
.TP
.B \-s  <selection function>
which parts of the packet used for hashing (presets)
either: "IP+TP", "IP", "REC8", "PACKET"
Default: "IP+TP"
.TP
.B \-S  <selection function>
which parts of the packet used for hashing (byte selection)
<keyword><offset list>
keywords: "RAW", "LAST", "LINK", "NET", "TRANS", "PAYLOAD"
offset list: comma seperated list with byte offsets and offset ranges, add another offset/offset range
   - range modifier (include borders)
   ^ range modifier (exclude borders)
   < range modifier (exclude right border)
   > range modifier (exclude left border)
   + range modifier (offset length)
   : range modifier (offset length)
   < and > have to be escaped
Example: RAW20,34-45,14+4,4
.TP
.B \-t  <template>
either "min" or "lp" or "ts" or "ls"
Default: "min"
.TP
.B \-u
use only one oid from the first interface
.TP
.B \-v[expression]
verbose-level; use multiple times to increase output
filter by function names in comma-separated list at a certain log level
   * matches anything; can be combined at start/end of expressions
   - exclude expression
Example: '-vv*,-main' matches anything but main-function (level 2)
         Example: '-vvv*export*,-*flush
                  matches all functions containing export, but not ending of flush

.TP
.B \-h
print this help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
print version information and exit.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.br
The programs are documented fully by
.IR "The Rise and Fall of a Fooish Bar" ,
available via the Info system.
.SH AUTHOR
impd4e was written by <upstream author>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Ramon Masek <ramon.masek@fokus.fraunhofer.de>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
